[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, I'm Reece Jones, and
welcome to this sleep talk down
and lucid dream
incubation video.
Today, I'll be guiding
you through the process
of relaxing your mind,
preparing yourself for sleep.
And then, once your
mindspace has been softened,
sowing the seeds for a lucid
dream later on in the night.
In this particular video,
the sleep talk down theme
will be reverse psychology,
and the lucid dream incubation
theme will be mastering
the art of levitation.
And so to begin, please
turn off all of your lights,
lay down on your bed,
and get into a position
that you feel comfortable
with, either on your belly,
on your side, or on your back.
Whichever position you feel most
comfortable in, adopt it now.
And then make any
final adjustments
you need in order to
feel fully settled.
For example, perhaps you'd
like to fluff your pillow
or maybe you'd like
to stretch your legs
and then snuggle into your
comforter nice and tight.
Whatever makes you feel cozy
is fine and should be done now.
It's at this point
that I'd usually
ask you to close your
eyes, but today I'd
like to try something different.
Today, we're going to keep
our eyes open instead.
So with eyes open,
take a deep breath in--
and out.
And another deep breath in--
Then allow your breath to
settle into a normal rhythm, not
forcing it to go
one way or another.
Now I want you to lie here and
let your mind do its thing.
Just like the breath.
I don't want you to force
it to go one way or another.
So if your mind is in
a calm, restful state,
and you're naturally settling
into a clear headspace,
go with that.
But if your mind's still feeling
busy with internal chatter
and the like, don't resist that.
With your eyes open,
just let things unfold
in the way they want to unfold.
And as my voice
re-emerges, perhaps I
caught you mid-thought.
That's OK.
What were you thinking?
Perhaps you were thinking,
why do I have my eyes open.
Isn't this supposed to
be a sleep talk down?
And, of course, you're right.
This is indeed a
sleep talk down.
But as the old saying
goes, there's more than one
way to skin a cat,
and studies have
shown that by using reverse
psychology on yourself,
you can actually heighten the
chances of falling into sleep.
In other words, by keeping
your eyes open now and forcing
yourself to stay awake, when
the lucid dream incubation
phase eventually comes
and you close your eyes,
you should be primed and
ready to start drifting away.
And, once more,
my voice returns.
Did I catch you
in thought again?
That's OK.
We're still just letting our
minds wander freely for now.
But in just a moment
here, I'm going
to ask you to slowly
rein things in a bit.
With your eyes
still open, I want
you to begin honing
your awareness now.
I want you to turn
your attention away
from the random
meanderings of your mind
and place it squarely
on your breath instead,
allowing that to be
your object of focus.
If your mind was just lost
in fantasy or thoughts
of the day just
gone, now train it
solely on the in and out
sensation of the breath,
and revel in it as you do.
Observe its exquisite form.
Appreciate it.
Notice how you don't even have
to consciously control it.
Just like magic, your body has
your back, looking after you.
And within that acknowledgment,
devote yourself fully
to watching the process unfold,
all the while remembering
to keep your eyes open.
It's not always easy to maintain
one's focus on the breath.
How can something
so seemingly simple
be so difficult to
implement in practice?
But that's just
the way of things.
Most of us aren't trying to
focus on something so singular
as the breath.
Our minds are always
looking for something
more complicated to
attach themselves to.
But realize now the breath is
mysterious in its simplicity,
and given the right training,
can be just as fascinating
as any illusion of the mind.
So remind yourself of this
now and return your focus
to the breath, all the while
keeping your eyes open.
Remember, we're purposely
keeping our eyes open
until the beginning
of the lucid dream
incubation with the intent
to more effortlessly induce
sleep when it finally comes.
And so, I spend a final minute
or two with the breath here.
Eyes open.
No need to chastise
yourself if you are lost in
thought again just there.
Chastisement is, after
all, just another thought.
Instead, just allow
yourself to start fresh,
returning to the breath,
free of judgment.
You are now in a
supremely relaxed state
and may go ahead
and close your eyes.
We're ready to begin incubating
a lucid dream for later
on in the night.
By following along with my words
and visualizing them as you go,
you'll prime yourself to draw
upon these very same images
during REM.
There's no need to
follow along strictly.
Just continue relaxing and
allow my words to wash over you.
Whatever images come, come.
And even if you fall
asleep during this process,
know that your subconscious will
soak these words in and store
them for later.
So, let's begin.
You come to on a strange barren
world, rocky and mountainous.
Immediately, you question
your surroundings.
"Where am I?"
You ask.
"How did I get here?"
You try to answer both
of these questions
but find yourself
searching, unable to locate
anything concrete.
For a moment, you try to
explain away this forgetfulness,
but catch yourself mid excuse.
"Wait," you think.
"Maybe I'm dreaming."
And so you prepare yourself for
the nose-pinch reality check.
"If I can breathe in through
my blocked nose, I'm dreaming,"
You think.
And lo and behold, on
trying to do so, you can.
"I am.
I'm dreaming," you say
out loud, getting straight
to grounding yourself and
stabilizing the scene.
The scene is stable and
your consciousness is clear.
You're experiencing a
higher layer of lucidity,
perfectly able to
recall important details
from your waking life.
For example, you remember your
name, your age, your address,
and so on.
Your mind is firing
on all cylinders.
Suddenly, you hear a
noise in the distance.
It starts as a low rumble but
quickly grows in severity.
You turn your attention
to the mountains
and see that they're
breaking apart, splintering
into multiple rocky shards.
It's a grand sight, equal
parts, awesome and bewildering
in scope.
"Wow," you think as
the rocky boulders
that were once the mountain
settle on the ground.
They're still mammoth even now,
but smaller, more manageable.
And so you decide to go and
have some fun with them,
kicking off the ground and
flying over to get closer.
Upon landing by the
boulders, you're
immediately struck by
their exquisite texture.
They look uncannily real.
Realer than real, in fact.
You go over to one and
rest your hand on it,
feeling its dream
essence pulsate
through your fingertips.
"I'm dreaming," you
remind yourself,
checking in to ensure
that lucidity continues.
You look around and see
another huge rocky boulder.
This one looks slightly
different, though.
Just as big, but a
slightly smoother texture.
You go over and engage
with that one too.
You feel a call to
do something more.
Now lucidity is still strong
and seems to be rising.
The longer you stay
within this space,
the larger your ambitions grow.
"I am a gold here,"
you think, or shrug.
You take a few steps back and
survey the scene once more.
There are eight orders or so.
"I can make them
dance," you think.
Half sarcastically, half not.
"I can raise them up
with my mind alone.
I can do what I want
with this scene.
Manipulate it in
any way I see fit."
And so you start with
something small, a tiny pebble
by one of the big boulders.
You lift your hand up and
obscure it from your view,
and with your mind
alone, you will it away.
"When I lower my hand,
the pebble will be gone,"
you think.
And so it is.
You now turn your mind
to a grander experiment,
moving the boulders with
a mere blink of your eyes.
In low-layer lucidity, you
may not feel so confident
in doing such a thing.
Perhaps you wouldn't think
to do such a thing at all.
But here in this
high-layer state,
you feel confident
in your abilities.
Nonetheless, you prime your
mind for what's about to occur.
"When I blink my eyes, I'll
move this boulder from here
to there off in
the distance," you
think to yourself
calmly and assuredly.
And just like before, on
the first attempt, it is so.
Again, your confidence grows.
And so, you set your mind
to one last experiment.
The grandest one yet.
"I want to make these
things levitate,"
you say out loud
to the dreamscape.
And as you do, the scene starts
to rumble again, seemingly
in response to your request.
"Rise up," you
say, staring a hole
through one of the boulders.
And after a brief shake,
it follows your command,
raising up.
"You too, rise up,"
you say to another.
And it works with
that one as well.
"All of you then," you say.
"All of you into the air now."
And just like that, with one
last push of mental strength,
you lift up the entire group
of boulders into the air
and keep them there,
hanging, levitating.
You smile wide.
A mixture of emotions
flooding your system.
Joy, power, awe.
"What's next then?"
you think, knowing that not
even the sky is the limit.
You have now successfully
planted the seeds
for a lucid dream
later on in the night,
and have primed
yourself to recognize
it as such when it occurs.
You're now also in a state
of supreme relaxation,
fully at haze, either
sleeping or just now
ready to begin the
first phase of sleeping.
And so, with that, I draw
this session to a close.
Remember, you are
a lucid dreamer.
Happy dreaming.
[MUSIC PLAYING]